# Safari is the New Internet Explorer
Remember that time when Internet Explorer was still big? In fact, IE is the first ever browser that I used back when I started coding. Nowadays, next to no-one uses Internet Explorer, but there was a time when companies had to go out of their way to bring IE support to their website due to the quirks of the ancient rendering engine in IE.

Thankfully, developers no longer have to ensure that their website works on every single individual browser out there due to strong, standardised feature support from browsers such as Chrome, Firefox, Edge and Safari. Right?!

Except that's wrong due to one _tiny_ exception ─ and that's Safari. Safari has always been a pain for me to develop for as it now has loads of quirks that can often cause your site to break on devices that run it. Here's a few features that are _still_ not implemented by Safari but which are implemented by (nearly) every other browser on the market:

* **Push API**: Allows websites to send a notification to a device when that device hasn't got the website open. This is useful for sites such as messaging platforms that need to alert a user to say they've got a new message. This is kinda implemented in the macOS version of Safari, but is still pretty useless.
* **Vibration API**: Allows websites to buzz mobile devices when the website is on-screen. This can provide touch feedback and can be a fun interactivity element in web-based mobile games. I wanted to use this API for a coronavirus tracker that we were working on ─ [Proxi](https://proxi.emux.app) ─ so that we could alert the user to the fact that they're very close to somebody else. Needless to say, the vibration mode in Proxi is only supported on Android.
* **Lookbehind in regex**: There are certain regular expressions that I use to manipulate user input to display things such as links. In my example, I wanted to hyperlink every instance of a Glipo group (formatted as `g/groupname`) in posts and comments that are on Glipo. The catch was that I didn't want the instances to be hyperlinked when they're in a code block, and so I used a lookbehind to disregard instances that didn't follow after `</code>` or `</pre>`. And yep, this broke in Safari too. It's hard to circumvent this as if any of your regex code contains a lookbehind, Safari will throw a `SyntaxError` at you (so I had to use `new RegExp( ... )` instead).
* **Web Bluetooth API**: I was hoping to create a site that would connect to a Bluetooth LE device of my own design, but it turns out that Safari doesn't support this, which is aggravating for iOS users who want to connect their bluetooth devices to their favourite web services.

There's loads of other things that are supported in Chrome and Firefox, but are not supported in Safari. The annoying thing is, the WebKit authors list that they are 'not considering' some features that I'd _love_ to exist in Safari, namely the Web Bluetooth API, but also things such as the Web MIDI API, WebUSB API, Battery Status API and web components. In many cases, they state that it is to 'protect user privacy', but really these features should be able to be locked down anyway using a permissions-based system.

In my opinion, I think it's all because Apple are trying to push its developers into paying the $99/year to pop their apps on the App Store. By unsupporting loads of features, web developers would have no other choice but to pay the (hefty) price and publish a native app. It's simply a greedy tactic which is being pulled off by a trillion-dollar company ─ surely they don't have enough money already?!

Maybe I'm biassed ─ I'm only 16 and after many hours of trying to get Proxi on the App Store, Apple wouldn't have any of it because I simply am not an adult. Sure, I can register a fully-operational UK company at this age, but to publish a free, simple app on the App Store? According to Apple, I have to be at least 18 years old in order to be a 'real' developer. I suppose it's the law, because [according to a user on Apple's Developer Forums](https://developer.apple.com/forums/thread/85235),

> Apple is simply obeying the legal age requirement to be able to enter into a contract, in this case, in the US State of California.

Let's not get into the fact that apps on the App Store can't use their own browser rendering engine (they must use WebKit for rendering webpages), so the Google Chrome iOS app is sadly subject to the same restrictions as Safari has. Antitrust law anyone?

So if you're trying to get around the issues of supporting Safari, I'd stay clear of purchasing an iPhone if I were you. Personally, I'd suggest using a free device testing service such as [Appetize.io](https://appetize.io/) which will give you access to Safari without even needing a device that has Safari on it. [Can I use...](https://caniuse.com/) is also really handy for reading up on browser compatibility.

Additionally, I'd also suggest visiting [safari-is-the-new-ie.com](https://www.safari-is-the-new-ie.com/), and also the DEV article with a very similar title that inspired me to write this blog post: [_Safari is the New Internet Explorer_](https://dev.to/nektro/safari-is-the-new-internet-explorer-1df0).

And if you work for Apple, please please _please_ fix your browser!
