# Developing Bazaar ─ a Work-in-Progress Platform
I'm not planning to talk about this newfangled product I'm developing _too_ much, but to keep you in the loop, [Emux](https://emux.app) is back again and is working on building a new contender to the likes of Deliveroo and Uber Eats ─ and we're calling it Bazaar. Our general idea is to deliver local products from nearby independent stores to peoples' front doors ─ a bit like a local version of Amazon.

Product talk over, I thought I should share with you the tech stack which we're using to develop the Bazaar platform. It uses a mix of API services which I've been a long-time user of as well as a few new ones which having looked at their features, I think are awesome.

Not sponsored by any of these by the way ─ it's all just preference (not like I am notable enough to get sponsored yet...)!

Our database is unsurprisingly using Firebase. It's been my go-to cloud service for storing cloud data. It manages all of our users for us, our product listings, the security behind the platform (to make sure that users don't steal items by purchasing them for free), as well as the backend functionality so that we can dispatch orders to our delivery team. I'm using Cloud Firestore (which I used for Glipo; the first time I used it) over the Realtime Database because it's pretty cost-effective for write-once-read-many data situations. So long as you're not making some massive chatroom system where 100 people are sending live messages to each other in any given minute, it's a good choice ─ especially for apps with heaps of user-generated content in a filterable format.

One of the new challenges with this platform is the inclusion of monetisation ─ the biggest question being: how do we pay local businesses when users send money through our platform? That's where Stripe comes in. It's likely a service you've heard of or even used before; it's one of the top choices for developers when it comes to accepting online payments. The most attractive thing I found about it is its Stripe Connect product, which allows our local businesses to create their own guest Stripe account and effectively connect it to our own service where we can pay them ─ and Stripe will manage all of the onboarding and verification for us, which is a big plus.

The next service that I'm going to talk about is one which probably won't be used very often, but is still important nonetheless. Since we're putting local businesses on the map, we _need_ a map to display them! We're using Mapbox to do so because we're pretty familliar with it here at Emux ─ we used it for [Proxi](https://proxi.emux.app/), after all. My favourite aspect of it is its ability to be themed ─ we can apply our bright Emux branding colours on the embedded map, making local parks light up with our interesting greenish colour.

Finally, we need a way for our users to choose their products on Bazaar. Unlike e-commerce sites such as Amazon, we don't plaster random products on our homepage (though we do show local businesses and offers near you) ─ we simply show a search box where the user can type in something that they wish to have in their hands within the next 30 minutes or so. The reason we only show a search box is simple ─ our users will be coming to us because they need to get a specific item, in that they're on a mission. Algolia looks to be a great solution to our search requirements since it allows us to filter our products by geolocation and not just by search term (kinda handy on a platform where we're promoting products from local shops). In addition, it's got some great querying features such as misspelling correction.

So that pretty much sums up our API stack at Emux for developing Bazaar. Fingers crossed we can launch our platform soon for you to take a look!
